packages/protocol-ethereum-sdk/README.md, before:

## Rarible protocol ethereum Software Development Kit

Rarible protocol-ethereum-sdk enables applications to easily interact with Rarible protocol.

### Installation

```angular2html
npm install -D @rarible/protocol-ethereum-sdk
```

### With protocol-ethereum-sdk, you can:

- Create sell orders
- Create/accept bid for auctions
- Buy tokens for regular sell orders
- Create Lazy Mint NFT ERC721 and ERC1155 tokens
- Make regular mint
- Transfer tokens
- Burn tokens

### Usage

Below examples show how you can implement supported functions in you app.

#### Configure and create Rarible SDK object

```typescript
import { createRaribleSdk } from "@rarible/protocol-ethereum-sdk"

const sdk = createRaribleSdk(web3, env, { fetchApi: fetch })
```

- web3 - configured with your provider [web3js](https://github.com/ChainSafe/web3.js/tree/v1.4.0) client
- env - environment configuration name, it should accept one of these values
  ``` 'ropsten' | 'rinkeby' | 'mainnet' | 'e2e'```

#### Create sell order

```typescript
const order: Order = await sdk.order.sell(request).then(a => a.runAll())
// Sell request example:
const contractErc20Address: Address = '0x0' // your ERC20 contract address
const contractErc721Address: Address = '0x0' // your ERC721 contract address
const tokenId: BigNumber = '0x0' // the ERC721 Id of the token on which we want to place a bid
const sellerAddress: Address = '0x0' // Owner of ERC721 token
const nftAmount: number = 1 // For ERC721 always be 1
const sellPrice: number = 10 // price per unit of ERC721 or ERC1155 token(s)
const request = {
	makeAssetType: {
		assetClass: "ERC1155",
		contract: contractErc721Address,
		tokenId: tokenId,
	},
	maker: sellerAddress,
	amount: nftAmount,
	originFees: [],
	payouts: [],
	price: sellPrice,
	takeAssetType: {
		assetClass: "ERC20",
		contract: contractErc20Address
	},
}
```

Returns an object of created order.

[Sell e2e test](https://github.com/rariblecom/protocol-e2e-tests/blob/master/packages/tests-current/src/erc721-sale.test.ts)

#### Create bid

```typescript

const order: Order = await sdk.order.bid(request).then(a => a.runAll())

// Bid request example:
const contractErc20Address: Address = '0x0' // your ERC20 contract address
const contractErc721Address: Address = '0x0' // your ERC721 contract address
const tokenId: BigNumber = '0x0' // the ERC721 Id of the token on which we want to place a bid
const sellerAddress: Address = '0x0' // Owner of ERC721 token
const buyerAddress: Address = '0x0' // Who make a bid
const nftAmount: number = 1 // For ERC721 always be 1
const bidPrice: number = 10 // price per unit of ERC721 or ERC1155 token(s)

const request = {
	makeAssetType: {
		assetClass: "ERC20",
		contract: contractErc20Address,
	},
	maker: buyerAddress,
	takeAssetType: {
		assetClass: "ERC721",
		contract: contractErc721Address,
		tokenId: tokenId,
	},
	taker: sellerAddress,
	amount: nftAmount,
	originFees: [],
	payouts: [],
	price: bidPrice,
}
```

Returns an object of created bid order.

[Bid e2e test](https://github.com/rariblecom/protocol-e2e-tests/blob/master/packages/tests-current/src/create-bid.test.ts)

#### Purchase order or accept bid (fill order)

```typescript

const order: SimpleOrder

sdk.order.fill(
	order,
	{ payouts: [], originFees: [], amount: 1, infinite: true }
).then(a => a.runAll())
```

For example, you can get the `order` object using our sdk api methods `sdk.apis.order.getSellOrders({})` and pass it
to `fill` function. You can get more information in the test
repository [sell e2e test](https://github.com/rariblecom/protocol-e2e-tests/blob/master/packages/tests-current/src/erc721-sale.test.ts)

#### Mint NFT Tokens

There are support two ways of minting ERC721 and ERC1155 tokens:

1. Regular "on chain" minting using contract.
2. Off chain minting (the transaction itself and payment for gas occurs at the time of purchase or transfer)

Mint request object

```typescript
const mintRequest = {
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress), // contract address
		type: "ERC1155", // type of asset to mint, "ERC721" || "ERC1155"
		supportsLazyMint: true, // true if contract supports lazy minting  
	},
	uri: 'uri', // token uri
	supply: toBigNumber('100'), // supply - used only for ERC1155 tokens
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }], // creators of token
	royalties: [], // royalties
	lazy: true, // true if mint lazy or false when mint onchain
}
```

### Mint examples

Mint function always return tokenId as string

#### ERC721 Lazy

```typescript
const tokenId = await mint({
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress),
		type: "ERC721",
		supportsLazyMint: true,
	},
	uri: 'uri',
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }],
	royalties: [],
	lazy: true,
})
```

#### ERC1155 Lazy

```typescript
const tokenId = await mint({
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress),
		type: "ERC1155",
		supportsLazyMint: true,
	},
	uri: 'uri',
	supply: toBigNumber('100'),
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }],
	royalties: [],
	lazy: true,
})
```

#### ERC721

```typescript
await mint({
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress),
		type: "ERC721",
		supportsLazyMint: true,
	},
	uri: 'uri',
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }],
	royalties: [],
})
```

#### ERC1155

```typescript
const tokenId = await mint({
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress),
		type: "ERC1155",
		supportsLazyMint: true,
	},
	uri: 'uri',
	supply: toBigNumber('100'),
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }],
	royalties: [],
})
```

[Mint e2e test](https://github.com/rariblecom/protocol-e2e-tests/blob/master/packages/tests-current/src/lazy-mint.test.ts)

#### Transfer

```
transfer(asset, to[, amount])

Transfer request params:

asset: {
    tokenId: BigNumber, // - id of token to transfer
    contract: Address, // - address of token contract
    assetClass?: "ERC721" | "ERC1155" // - not required, type of asset
}
to: Address, // - ethereum address of receiver of token
amount: BigNumber // - amount of asset to transfer, used only for ERC1155 assets
```

Example

```typescript
const hash = await sdk.nft.transfer(
	{
		assetClass: "ERC1155",
		contract: toAddress(contractAddress),
		tokenId: toBigNumber(tokenId),
	},
	receiverAddress,
	toAddress('10')
)

```

#### Burn

```typescript
const hash = await sdk.nft.burn({
	contract: contractAddress,
	tokenId: toBigNumber(tokenId),
})
```

### Suggestions

You are welcome to suggest features and report bugs found! You can do it
here: https://github.com/rarible/protocol-issues/issues

Commit message:

RPN-1049: update libraries support info

packages/protocol-ethereum-sdk/README.md, after:

## Rarible protocol ethereum Software Development Kit

Rarible protocol-ethereum-sdk enables applications to easily interact with Rarible protocol.

### Installation

```angular2html
npm install -D @rarible/protocol-ethereum-sdk
```

### With protocol-ethereum-sdk, you can:

- Create sell orders
- Create/accept bid for auctions
- Buy tokens for regular sell orders
- Create Lazy Mint NFT ERC721 and ERC1155 tokens
- Make regular mint
- Transfer tokens
- Burn tokens

### Libraries support

[web3.js](https://github.com/ChainSafe/web3.js/tree/v1.4.0) and [ethers.js](https://github.com/ethers-io/ethers.js) libraries are supported.

You can use the following types of providers:

- `web3` - [web3.js](https://web3js.readthedocs.io/en/v1.5.2/web3.html#providers) provider
- `ethersEtherium` - [ethers.js](https://docs.ethers.io/v5/api/providers/#providers) default provider
- `Web3Ethereum` - moving from a web3.js based application [to ethers](https://docs.ethers.io/v5/api/providers/other/#Web3Provider) by wrapping an existing Web3-compatible and exposing it as an ethers.js provider

[Signer](https://docs.ethers.io/v5/api/signer/#signers) from ethers.js is also supported.

### Usage with web3.js

Below examples show how you can implement supported functions in you app.

#### Configure and create Rarible SDK object

```typescript
import { createRaribleSdk } from "@rarible/protocol-ethereum-sdk"

const sdk = createRaribleSdk(web3, env, { fetchApi: fetch })
```

- web3 - configured with your provider [web3js](https://github.com/ChainSafe/web3.js/tree/v1.4.0) client
- env - environment configuration name, it should accept one of these values
  ``` 'ropsten' | 'rinkeby' | 'mainnet' | 'e2e'```

#### Create sell order

```typescript
const order: Order = await sdk.order.sell(request).then(a => a.runAll())
// Sell request example:
const contractErc20Address: Address = '0x0' // your ERC20 contract address
const contractErc721Address: Address = '0x0' // your ERC721 contract address
const tokenId: BigNumber = '0x0' // the ERC721 Id of the token on which we want to place a bid
const sellerAddress: Address = '0x0' // Owner of ERC721 token
const nftAmount: number = 1 // For ERC721 always be 1
const sellPrice: number = 10 // price per unit of ERC721 or ERC1155 token(s)
const request = {
	makeAssetType: {
		assetClass: "ERC1155",
		contract: contractErc721Address,
		tokenId: tokenId,
	},
	maker: sellerAddress,
	amount: nftAmount,
	originFees: [],
	payouts: [],
	price: sellPrice,
	takeAssetType: {
		assetClass: "ERC20",
		contract: contractErc20Address
	},
}
```

Returns an object of created order.

[Sell e2e test](https://github.com/rariblecom/protocol-e2e-tests/blob/master/packages/tests-current/src/erc721-sale.test.ts)

#### Create bid

```typescript

const order: Order = await sdk.order.bid(request).then(a => a.runAll())

// Bid request example:
const contractErc20Address: Address = '0x0' // your ERC20 contract address
const contractErc721Address: Address = '0x0' // your ERC721 contract address
const tokenId: BigNumber = '0x0' // the ERC721 Id of the token on which we want to place a bid
const sellerAddress: Address = '0x0' // Owner of ERC721 token
const buyerAddress: Address = '0x0' // Who make a bid
const nftAmount: number = 1 // For ERC721 always be 1
const bidPrice: number = 10 // price per unit of ERC721 or ERC1155 token(s)

const request = {
	makeAssetType: {
		assetClass: "ERC20",
		contract: contractErc20Address,
	},
	maker: buyerAddress,
	takeAssetType: {
		assetClass: "ERC721",
		contract: contractErc721Address,
		tokenId: tokenId,
	},
	taker: sellerAddress,
	amount: nftAmount,
	originFees: [],
	payouts: [],
	price: bidPrice,
}
```

Returns an object of created bid order.

[Bid e2e test](https://github.com/rariblecom/protocol-e2e-tests/blob/master/packages/tests-current/src/create-bid.test.ts)

#### Purchase order or accept bid (fill order)

```typescript

const order: SimpleOrder

sdk.order.fill(
	order,
	{ payouts: [], originFees: [], amount: 1, infinite: true }
).then(a => a.runAll())
```

For example, you can get the `order` object using our sdk api methods `sdk.apis.order.getSellOrders({})` and pass it
to `fill` function. You can get more information in the test
repository [sell e2e test](https://github.com/rariblecom/protocol-e2e-tests/blob/master/packages/tests-current/src/erc721-sale.test.ts)

#### Mint NFT Tokens

There are support two ways of minting ERC721 and ERC1155 tokens:

1. Regular "on chain" minting using contract.
2. Off chain minting (the transaction itself and payment for gas occurs at the time of purchase or transfer)

Mint request object

```typescript
const mintRequest = {
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress), // contract address
		type: "ERC1155", // type of asset to mint, "ERC721" || "ERC1155"
		supportsLazyMint: true, // true if contract supports lazy minting
	},
	uri: 'uri', // token uri
	supply: toBigNumber('100'), // supply - used only for ERC1155 tokens
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }], // creators of token
	royalties: [], // royalties
	lazy: true, // true if mint lazy or false when mint onchain
}
```

### Mint examples

Mint function always return tokenId as string

#### ERC721 Lazy

```typescript
const tokenId = await mint({
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress),
		type: "ERC721",
		supportsLazyMint: true,
	},
	uri: 'uri',
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }],
	royalties: [],
	lazy: true,
})
```

#### ERC1155 Lazy

```typescript
const tokenId = await mint({
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress),
		type: "ERC1155",
		supportsLazyMint: true,
	},
	uri: 'uri',
	supply: toBigNumber('100'),
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }],
	royalties: [],
	lazy: true,
})
```

#### ERC721

```typescript
await mint({
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress),
		type: "ERC721",
		supportsLazyMint: true,
	},
	uri: 'uri',
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }],
	royalties: [],
})
```

#### ERC1155

```typescript
const tokenId = await mint({
	collection: {
		id: toAddress(contractAddress),
		type: "ERC1155",
		supportsLazyMint: true,
	},
	uri: 'uri',
	supply: toBigNumber('100'),
	creators: [{ account: toAddress(minter), value: 10000 }],
	royalties: [],
})
```

[Mint e2e test](https://github.com/rariblecom/protocol-e2e-tests/blob/master/packages/tests-current/src/lazy-mint.test.ts)

#### Transfer

```
transfer(asset, to[, amount])

Transfer request params:

asset: {
    tokenId: BigNumber, // - id of token to transfer
    contract: Address, // - address of token contract
    assetClass?: "ERC721" | "ERC1155" // - not required, type of asset
}
to: Address, // - ethereum address of receiver of token
amount: BigNumber // - amount of asset to transfer, used only for ERC1155 assets
```

Example

```typescript
const hash = await sdk.nft.transfer(
	{
		assetClass: "ERC1155",
		contract: toAddress(contractAddress),
		tokenId: toBigNumber(tokenId),
	},
	receiverAddress,
	toAddress('10')
)

```

#### Burn

```typescript
const hash = await sdk.nft.burn({
	contract: contractAddress,
	tokenId: toBigNumber(tokenId),
})
```

### Suggestions

You are welcome to suggest features and report bugs found! You can do it
here: https://github.com/rarible/protocol-issues/issues
